***Please find the Task 5 for Milestone 2 here.***

### Research Question: ###
***Exploring popularity of video game genres across different regions, and presenting them.***
### ***Corrections made after feedback:*** ###

***The main Research questions that we are trying to answer are as follows:***
***1) Comparing the sales of different genres of video games in different regions, primarily North America, Europe, and Japan.***
***2) Calculating the average number of sale per genre in each region.
The aim of the analysis is to explore the video game sales of different genres in different regions. The analysis also looks at the genres popular in these regions, and tries to explore the factors associated to it. (For example, interestingly the genre that was most popular in Japan was role-playing, followed by platform games. The total Role-Playing game sales and in North America the most popular game based on sales in North America alone seems to be a sports video game with sales)***

***Through the various analysis that was done on the dataset, it is clear that each region around the world has a clear distinct favourite video game genre; The main regions that we are comparing through are North America, Europe, and Japan. These main regions are the largest market in terms of video game sales and are where most video game developer and publishing companies are located. The video game categories include various genres including action, shooter, sports, and simulation, which were played across different gaming consoles. The games also vary in launch dates, ranging from those released in as early as the 1990s and those released in 2016.***

According to our analysis the video game genre with most releases is **action**  with around approximately 3250 releases followed by sports at around 2400 releases. The reason as to why these two video game genres are the most released could be an indication of the consumers preference. However domestically the popularity of the video game genre may differ but through our analysis the most released genre were the two.
	To further examine the popularity of video game genres we examined the sales of each video game genre based on that region’s sales.

## ANALYZING DIFFERENT VIDEO GAME GENRES BY REGION ##

- In North America the most popular game based on sales in North America alone seems to be a sports video game with sales of about 41.36 (Wii sports) followed by platform at 29.08 and shooters at 26.83. In fact, the sales for Wii sports in North America constituted more than 50% of global sales. Wii sports is a video game that caters to all ages, hence the large sale and popularity. In addition, most of the world’s biggest sports leagues are based in North America, examples range from the NBA, MLB, and NHL. Due to the prevalence of sports and sports leagues in North America, it would only make sense for game publishers to capitalize on this market. It is worth mentioning that despite the large sales in sports video games the majority of video game consumers in North America would actually prefer action to sports games. However action games were unable to translate their popularity and success into high game sales.  In terms of genre, action games had the most total sales 591.2, while sports and shooter were almost at par with total sales of 457.5 and 448.8 respectively. An interesting feature observed was that total sales of action games in North America (591.23) was almost 50% of total sales of action games (1203.16) globally.

- Contrastingly, sports video game sales in Japan were not as popular. Sales for sports games in Japan were only 3.77.  Japan is expected to generate the lowest game sales out of 3 regions, as their population size is significantly smaller than that of North America and Europe. Interestingly the genre that was most popular in Japan was role-playing, followed by platform games. The total Role-Playing game sales in JP: 355.46, this woould be the mean which was calculated from the analysis. The popularity of role-playing game sales in Japan would highly be attributed to the Japanese company Nintendo; With Nintendo being world-renowned for publishing role-playing games or games in that similar design, with an example being Pokemon; It is one of the most successful game series to have ever been published. Despite the differences in the most popular genre, both regions shared high levels of interest in platform games, as in both regions platform game sales were among one of the highest game genre sales in those regions respectively. The action game sales would be just half of the role playing ones. It is very common for Japanese culture to encourage role-playing games it enable one to play around with  young characters as they are entering adulthood or make stylistic choices, such as hairstyles or even clothes, kitchens etc are shared among many Japanese role-playing games. They are less aggresive and not violont which describes their disinterest in shooting and action games.

- European video game sales seem to almost mirror North American game sales, with sports generating the highest sales with 28.96 in Europe. However, on an average, sales for a given action or sports game in North America were more than that of Europe. This is an interesting observation as North America is approximately half the population size of Europe but yet more game sales are generated.

- Taking regions other than North America, Europe, and Japan into account, action games were the most popular, followed by sports. The sales for action and sports games were 147.5 and 94.1 respectively. One interesting feature observed was that the total action game sales for North America (591.2) was approximately 4 times that of other regions (147.5).

- It can be inferred that North America is the largest market in terms of video game sales; With this statistic game developers would focus on the North American market as its main primary consumer. This could possibly result in game developers catering more towards the preferences of those in North America. 


